Carousels are one of the best ways to
grow on Instagram. And in fact, in 2025,
they have a higher average engagement
rate than reals or single images. And
while Instagram reels might average a
slightly higher reach, carousel posts
can be a really powerful tool for
reaching your existing followers or for
reaching new followers who are more
interested in carousels than they are in
reals. I believe that a healthy,
well-rounded Instagram strategy that is
setting you up for success is not just
all about reels, but it also includes
carousels. And so today, I'm going to
share with you eight new styles of
carousels that are effective reaching
more people [music] and helping you grow
your followers and customers. And I'm
going to show you some examples for each
style. As a business owner on Instagram,
it's important to be consistent in your
effort, [music] but adaptable in your
strategies. And since 2022, carousels
have been on the rise. Instagram
admitted that they went too far in
pushing reels out to too many people and
oversaturating the platform with reels.
And since then, they have been giving
more reach and views to carousels. But
since that announcement was officially
made, the [music] number of people
posting carousels hasn't risen at the
same rate. Basically, what I'm saying is
the supply demand difference is in your
favor when it comes to carousels.
[music] When we talk about reels, the
supply demand is flipped. There's so
much supply. With so many reels being
posted, the demand just can't keep up.
And that's why year overyear, reels
[music] views continue to go down. But
like I said, carousels is the opposite.
Carousels are being pushed out to more
people maybe than ever before. But
there's not more people posting and
creating carousels than ever [music]
before. But here's the problem. If
you're still creating and posting
carousels today like you were in 2022 or
2023 or even 2024, you're going to get
left behind because [music] what people
look for and engage with when it comes
to carousels has changed. And so I'm
going to share with you eight new
trending, popular, easy to create
[music] carousels that you could apply
to pretty much any niche and they're
going to outperform the carousels
[music] of the past. Before we hop into
those eight, let me quickly define what
are the carousels of the past. The
carousels of the past are the carousels
where it's a solid color background with
an image of yourself cut out and some
big text hook that says, "Three tips for
losing weight."
Boring. Instead, use one of the eight
following ideas and your carousels will
reach more people. Also, one more pro
tip that's really important for me to
note before we continue talking about
these different kinds of carousels is
that you should always add music to your
carousel. Right before you press post,
below the caption, there will be an
option to add music to your carousel.
When you do this, it will help you get
more views, engagement, and followers.
And that's because number one, just
human nature, I am more likely to
consume something and interact with
something if there is an audio component
to it. But number two, algorithmically,
when you add music to a carousel, it
makes the carousel eligible to show up
on the reels tab. This might be a little
bit confusing, but stick with me for a
second. You know, as you're scrolling
through the recommended reels, not the
explore page, not the tab on your
profile of all of your reels, but the
recommended reels. For most people, it's
in the fourth position down at the
bottom of your screen. Well, when you're
scrolling through that, of course, we're
typically used to just seeing reels. But
when you add music to your carousel,
your carousel can actually show up as if
it was a real and people can swipe
through it just like they normally would
and it's mixed in with all the other
reels. This means it could provide a
significant boost in reach or
distribution to your post, which of
course could turn into a significant
boost in engagement and potentially
followers. So make sure when possible
you always add music to your carousels.
But with all of that being said, let's
talk about the eight different carousels
that are super popular and super
trending and pretty easy to make. Number
one is what I call the hook slide
carousel. Basically, this is a carousel
that is only two slides long. The first
slide is supposed to be a hook. It's
supposed to be a headline or something
that really grabs people's attention and
encourages them to slide, thus
interacting with your post. The second
slide is the context or the background.
A really easy way that you could do this
is to take your existing reels. Maybe
even take one of your existing
high-erforming reels and make that reel
your second slide. Then come up with a
headline or a hook or some sort of
catchy statement that's going to grab
people's attention and create a first
slide with that hook or headline on it.
Then people will slide from the
headline, first slide onto the second
slide. It's a really easy way to
recreate content and draw people in.
It's the same idea of like a YouTube
video, right? YouTube videos have the
thumbnail and the title. That's kind of
like the first slide of this two slide
carousel. It's a headline, a title. It's
going to grab your attention. It's going
to be really visually attractive. And
then when you click on the YouTube
video, here you are. I'm giving you the
value. I'm actually teaching you
whatever it is I'm going to talk about.
In the Instagram example, the slide onto
the second slide represents the click on
the YouTube video and then people are
watching your reel or they're reading
your uh long text post or they're just
consuming the content that you have to
share. This kind of carousel is
especially popular and effective if you
are doing breaking news or some sort of
actual headline related post. The second
trending super popular form of carousel
is what I call freeze frame carousels.
These carousels are super effective if
you're someone who has a podcast or a
YouTube video or you do interviews.
Basically, the idea here is it's kind of
comic book style where you're getting
two frames, a top half and a bottom half
on each slide and instead of just
watching someone talk, the closed
captions of what they are saying in that
frame is added on top of the video. I've
seen this done super effectively. I've
done this myself and I've even done this
myself with some of my own podcasts,
posting them on my own Instagram. Super
effective, super easy to create. Idea
number three is taking the carousels
that used to work and creating a new
refreshed version. So, in the past, like
I described earlier, what used to work
was a solid color background on every
single slide and you just have, you
know, text on every single slide and
maybe there's a cutout of you on the
first slide, but that's really it. Now,
what people are doing is they're taking
a popular carousel style called photo
dumps, which is not one that I'm
necessarily covering today, but photo
dumps are popular in the travel niche.
They're popular in the lifestyle niche,
which I don't necessarily consider a
niche, but I digress. Basically, photo
dumps are where you take a bunch of
photos from a recent vacation or maybe
from the past month, and you just post
them all, right? It's not one specific
occasion that you're posting about. It's
kind of like here's the last month or
here's my trip and all the photos I
took. Well, this third kind of carousel
that I would recommend for you as a
brand or business owner is to take this
photo dump style carousel and just add
text on top. Basically, the photo is
visually appealing, engaging, and makes
someone want to continue swiping and
going through the post. But then the
text on top is maybe telling a story or
entertaining them or giving some tips.
the account, her first 100K, is an
awesome account. She's got like a
million followers and she helps women
make their first $100,000 and she's all
about mindset and investing and saving
and all of that stuff. She's really
awesome. Check her out. And she does a
ton of these carousels, these photo dump
plus text style carousels, and they're a
great updated version of what was
effective a few years ago. Idea number
four is one that won't necessarily fit
for every niche or business, but it's
collage style carousels. These carousels
are super super fun to make. These style
of carousels can be a really great way
to highlight a recent vacation, maybe
show some photos from an in-person event
or meetup, or to just highlight a lot of
different photos in a really interactive
way all at once. There are some apps out
there that will help you create these
carousels, but the easiest way that I
found to create these collage style
carousels is actually right in Canva.
Basically, just go to Canva and then
create a new project with a custom size.
Instagram now allows your photos to be
3x4. Three being the width and four
being the height. So, if we convert that
into pixels, that's 1080 wide by 1440
tall. But for this collage carousel,
instead of creating your custom project
as 1080x440,
you're going to make the width a
multiple of 1080 based off how many
slides you want the carousel to be. So,
let's say you wanted to make a 7 slide
carousel. Well, 7 * 1080 is 7,560.
So, you would make your height 1440 and
you would make your width in pixels
7,560.
Then you can have fun with it. You can
play around, add a bunch of photos and
text and cutouts onto this really long
horizontal image. And then when you
export it, you can just cut the image so
that each individual image is the right
size for Instagram. You could manually
do this in your photos app, but what I
prefer to do is to use the website Pine
Tools. Pine Tools has an image splitter
tool where you can tell it how many
images you want to be split and then it
will automatically cut it for you and
you can save it uh so that you have the
individual images ready to be posted as
a carousel. Carousel number five is what
I call same meme, different meaning.
Basically, you take the same meme and
you just repeat it multiple times across
multiple slides, but you change up the
context or you change up the label or
you change up what the meme is
describing. This is a really great style
of carousel because oftentimes people
just want to see the different way the
joke is applied. It can also be a great
style of carousel because just memes in
general are a super effective way to
captivate people and make them laugh and
be relatable and connect with people.
And this is especially a great kind of
carousel if you have different or
competing ideal audiences. For example,
a lot of my followers are content
creators and a lot of my followers are
small business owners. And oftentimes
small business owners don't consider
themselves content creators and content
creators don't consider themselves small
business owners. And so sometimes I will
take the exact same meme and I will just
swap out the word content creator with
business owner and then post it as a
carousel. So, one slide says one thing,
one slide says another thing. Everyone's
happy. I'm more likely to get shares and
engagement, and it's a really easy
carousel to create. Carousel idea number
six is what I call a curated collection.
And really, a curated collection of
quotes or a curated collection of
visuals. I find that this style of
carousel is most effective when you just
bring together a bunch of motivational
quotes that really inspire you or that
relate to your niche or you bring
together a bunch of visuals that kind of
describe your niche or describe common
mindset shifts that people need to have.
These curated collections, each slide
doesn't necessarily talk to the next
slide, right? You could see one
individual slide and you don't need to
see the slide before it or after it for
that individual slide to be motivational
or to make an impact or to really
inspire you. Instead, each of these
slides might all fall under the same
umbrella. They might all be
motivational. They might all be super
funny. They might all be uh very
philosophical, but because they're all
under the same umbrella, they're all
being posted together. And it's a super
easy style of carousel to create. For
this one, I encourage you to just ask
yourself what quotes or phrases or
verses are super inspirational and
motivational to you and then just create
a series of images that have on each
image one of those quotes or
inspirational messages and then post
that as a curated collection. Carousel
idea number seven is definitely going to
take a little bit more work, but it is
the interactive carousel. It's the
carousel where swiping actually means
something. Maybe on the first slide,
people are prompted to pick a race car
and then by the last slide, one of the
race cars wins. Basically, the carousel
itself is interactive in some way.
There's a popular meme format that's
going around right now uh where people
take a trending audio and then the
trending audio just loops back and forth
between the lyrics and then the
saxophone and then the lyrics and a
saxophone. And so you make your first
image uh yourself singing the lyrics and
then you make the second image yourself
playing the saxophone. And so people
kind of swipe back and forth. It's
interactive. It's fun. It's c.
And then last but not least, the eighth
and final carousel that is performing
really well right now on Instagram. And
this one is especially for those of you
who do photography or videography or who
create art. And it is what I call the
flip book carousel. You know those flip
books that you would create when you
were little where you would take like a
notebook or a sticky note and you would
draw a little stick figure on the first
one and then you draw another stick
figure on the second one and then the
third and then when you would fan the
paper with your finger, it would make
that stick figure do a little dance or
like move around or like jump up and
down or something. It's the same idea.
What you can do on Instagram is you can
tell your followers to hold their finger
down on the little dots that are below
the carousel and then instead of
manually swiping one carousel at a time,
they hold their finger down on those
dots and they drag them back and forth.
It basically moves through the carousel
super quickly. And so you can create
stop motion effects, you can create
time-lapse effects, or you can show a
series of photos in really cool,
creative, and engaging ways. Now, I
don't know about you, but I suck at
graphic design. I can admittedly say
that that is one of my biggest
shortcomings, one of my biggest
weaknesses when it comes to content
creation. And yet, I'm still posting
numerous carousels a week. And I'm still
editing and graphic designing and
creating probably 95% of them. And so, I
want to encourage you to start messy,
start sloppy, but just start
experimenting, start having fun with it.
Maybe if you felt burnt out about reels
recently, this is going to be a great
opportunity for you to experiment and
bring some creativity and some fun and
some joy back into the process of
creating content for Instagram. Your
carousels don't have to be perfect, but
they have to be posted. Thank you so
much for watching today. Don't forget to
subscribe if you learned something new
or if you enjoyed this episode. Every
single Thursday, I put out a new episode
just like this with some quick tips,
ideas, or strategies for growing your
business or brand on social media. Thank
you so much for listening. Don't forget
to subscribe and as always, happy
networking.